<h2 id="fence">Fence Editor Feature</h2>

The _fence_ is a virtual boundary which is set around the lawn edges. The
actual role that fence points play will depend on the mowing pattern, the
navigation strategy and the robot mower construction. For example, if the
fence is positioned right on the lawn edges, then a mowing pattern that
positions the mower over a fence point is likely to drive it over the edge. In
general, it is advisable to start with a fence that sits well inside the lawn
edges, and expand it once proven.  
  
The fence editor feature is used to set the lawn dimensions and position the
points that make up the fence.

The feature comprises:

  * A header toolbar
  * The current _top-down_ view of the arena
  * A toolbar with tools to perform fence editing
  * The _top-down_ arena route view

### The Header Toolbar

This toolbar has controls for setting up the fence:

  * A profile selection dropdown list
  * The Lawn Width input
  * The Lawn Length input
  * The Lawn Border input

### Lawn Dimensions

There are 3 dimensions that need to be entered to specify the size of the
lawn: the width and height and the border in metres.

#### Lawn Border

The lawn border is the amount of space added to the lawn to create the arena.
It ensures the mower coordinates are always positive. In addition, if there
was no border it would be difficult to validate the calibration, because all
you would see in the arena is lawn, and you wouldn't know if the edges formed
the arena. Once you are happy with the calibration, the border can be reduced.

### Fence View

The fence view is a zoomable image that displays the arena overlaid with the
fence. Use the mouse scroll wheel to zoom in and out, over a part of the
image. Use the mouse to drag the image, or scroll to the area of interest.

### Editor Toolbar

The editor toolbar is displayed alongside the fence view. It has the following
tools:

  * Select
  * Extend
  * Select All
  * Clear
  * Left
  * Right
  * Up
  * Down
  * Expand
  * Contract
  * Add
  * Delete
  * Reset

#### Select

Use this tool to select each of the points in turn. Repeated use will result
in the current point being deselected and the next point being selected. A
selected point will be highlighted. Clicking a point then pressing the TAB key
is equivalent. When only one point is selected, its coordinates will be
displayed in a box at the foot of the toolbar.

#### Extend

Use this tool to select the next point without deselecting the current.
Repeated use will result in all points being selected. The SHIFT-TAB key
combination is equivalent.

#### Select All

Use this tool to select all the points in one action. The CTRL-A key
combination is equivalent.

#### Clear

Use this tool to deselect all of the points. Pressing the ESC key is
equivalent.

<!--{% include "help/nudge_tools.html" %}-->

#### Expand

When all points are selected, this tool and the Contract tool become
available. Expand moves all points out from the centroid. Scaffold lines are
shown to indicate the paths. The PLUS key can also be used to expand points.
For more accurate positioning hold down the ALT key for a smaller increment.

#### Contract

When all points are selected, this tool and the Expand tool become available.
Contract shrinks all points in towards the centroid. Scaffold lines are shown
to indicate the paths. The MINUS key can also be used to contract points. For
more accurate positioning hold down the ALT key for a smaller increment.

#### Add

When any point is selected, this tool and the Delete tool become available.
Add inserts a new point between the selected point and the next point. The
INSERT key can also be used to insert a point.

#### Delete

Use this tool to delete the selected point. The DELETE key can also be used to
delete a point.

#### Reset

This tool resets the points to factory settings if confirmed, and cannot be
undone.

### Route View

The route view is a zoomable image that displays the arena overlaid with the
route. The route is generated by the currently selected mowing pattern, which
may also be influenced by the cutter diameter(s). Use the mouse scroll wheel
to zoom in and out, over a part of the image. Use the mouse to drag the image,
or scroll to the area of interest

